.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
   or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
   distributed with this work for additional information#
   regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
   to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
   "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
   with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
   software distributed under the License is distributed on an
   "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
   KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
   specific language governing permissions and limitations
   under the License.
   

What's New in |version|
=======================

Version |release| includes more than 200 bug fixes from previous release, the
following new features and improvements.

.. contents::
   :local:
   :backlinks: top


Managed storage for KVM
-----------------------

   This adapter provides one to one mapping between SAN volume to VM's disk.
   This is to guarantee quality of services for performance sensitive
   applications. This adapter is based on nfs protocol.

   ====================== ============================================================================
   Supported hypervisors: KVM
   Link                   `CLOUDSTACK-7576 <https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/CLOUDSTACK-7576>`_
   ====================== ============================================================================


Improved CloudByte Storage Plugin
---------------------------------

   The new improved CloudByte plugin support the following features:

   - Managed storage, where each vm disk has the guaranteed QoS.
   - Account integration in cloudbyte with respect to domains in CloudStack.
   - Resize of the volume.
   - both iSCSI and nfs protocols in XenServer.
   - iSCSI protocol for KVM and VMware ESX.
   - Storage level snapshot capabilities as well as hypervisor level snapshot feature. 
   - Expose custom API's for ui integration.
   - Unlimited storage nodes across the sites.

   ====================== ============================================================================
   Supported hypervisors: KVM, VMware, XenServer
   Link                   `CLOUDSTACK-7098 <https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/CLOUDSTACK-7098>`_
   ====================== ============================================================================


Use SSH for commands sent to Virtual-Router
-------------------------------------------

   For XenServer host, sending commands to Virtual-Routers now use SSH,
   previously using XAPI plugin, this change reduce XAPI workload and allow
   Virtual-Router update while XenServer pool master is down.

   ====================== ============================================================================
   Supported hypervisors: XenServer
   Link                   `CLOUDSTACK-6314 <https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/CLOUDSTACK-6314>`_
   ====================== ============================================================================


Baremetal Advanced Networking Support
-------------------------------------

   This feature is about CloudStack network plugin for baremetal advanced
   networking. With this plugin, CloudStack can automatically program vlan on
   physical switch to which baremetal instances connect when creating/destroying
   baremetal instance. This feature cannot work standalone, it needs support
   from physical switch itself either from vendor's SDK or from an in-switch
   agent for whitebox switch. When using this feature, baremetal instances gain
   Layer 2 isolation methods provided by CloudStack advanced networking which is
   particularly useful in public cloud that wants to provide baremetal as a
   service.

   ====================== ============================================================================
   Supported hypervisors: N/A
   Link                   `Baremetal feature spec`_
   ====================== ============================================================================


Instance Password Generation length can now be changed
------------------------------------------------------

   For instance using random password generated by CloudStack, Password length and
   encoder can now be define with following Global Settings:
   ``vm.password.length``, ``user.password.encoders.exclude``, ``user.password.encoders.order``

   ====================== ============================================================================
   Supported hypervisors: N/A
   Link                   `Baremetal feature spec`_
   ====================== ============================================================================


Improvements
------------

-  [UI] keep advanced search parameters visible after search has been run
-  [UI] Add new vGPU types K160Q, K180Q, K280Q
-  [LXC] storage migration for LXC VMs fixed
-  MariaDB as cloudstack management server database
-  System VM password reset now supported
-  Root volume detach support

.. _Baremetal feature spec: https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CLOUDSTACK/Baremetal+Advanced+Networking+Support

